---
title: The Real Problem With Manga Art Is Its Homogeneity
published: true
---
To me the art style of manga is somewhat limited, compared to the Western art style, as much as I prefer Manga in every other way: with Manga the writing is usually well above what tends to sell in American comics, precisely because they have to in order to survive. You’re not going to run for sixty plus chapters and not get better at writing. However there is a major flaw in manga that Western comics generally don’t have: it doesn’t matter if a character is French, Portuguese, Italian, Spanish, Corsican, or Sicilian. Or even from Taiwan or Jamaica. They’re is still this “default look” that seems to come with being a manga character.

It’s weird saying that Western comics are less racist than Manga, and yet I’m not sure what other conclusion I can come up with. Someone who is France should not look exactly like someone who lives in Japan. Someone born in Portugal ( Brazil is a little more forgivable do to their history being a melting pot ) should not look exactly like a Manga character. Simply put, there should not be a “default human being”. This is the twenty first century, with telecommunications and the internet. Do you mean to tell me that you’ve never seen a white or black person? And I’m not talking about skin ton here. People have different characteristics based on the race they are, and simply ignoring that reality does not make one “less racist”.

And yet for some reason, never missing a beat, every time I open up a Manga almost every single time a Manga is only going to feature the Shojo eyed style, even if the shape of people’s faces is going to be different depending on the region that you are in. Someone who is half French and half Japanese, is going to look half Caucasian and half Japanese variety of Asian. I don’t even feel comfortable pointing out this obvious thing on Twitter, because I would have thought this would be obvious at this point: there is no such thing as a default human being, there are inherent visual differences between racists. In fact to me what is actually racist is trying to ignore these differences and creating the myth that there is a “default human being”.

This is one of the reasons I had to hide the fact that I tend to collect reference images of Japanese celebrities that are born with one French parent and one Japanese parent, even if the entire reason behind this is because of necessity: there are French ethnic and Japanese ethnic regions of the United States in my science fiction universe. I simply cannot escape this fact, because this was how I built my science fiction universe.

And I’m sick of having things like the way I build my science fiction setting taken out of context by people on twitter, and use to make it look like I believe in the exact opposite of how I feel: I do not believe that there is a “default human being”. There are inherent differences between White, Black, and Asian people. There are also differences within white people, black people, brown people, and Asian people. Simply ignoring these differences does not make someone less racist, anymore than saying “gender is a social construct” is not another way of being Transphobic.

My characters are half-Japanese. That makes sense for the science fiction continuity that I have built. I’m not going to justify to people whose opinions don’t even reflect my own political values. Who don’t even understand what being transsexual is, and yet claim to speak on my behalf.
